Half an hour away from the opens at Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Y Ivon Man
with Annabelle Drooers. Our top stories,
traders assessing President Trump's
latest tariff threats, including 25%
rates for Japan and Korea, as well as a
new August deadline that he now says is
not 100% firm.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio set to
face Asia-Pacific policy makers anxious
over trade on his first trip to the
region as DC's top envoy. And we take a
deep dive into Hong Kong's IPO revival
as new share sales in the city hit
multi-year highs with a lot more
listings on the way.
[Music]
Look, we came into the session this
morning and I think if you'd asked
anyone, they'd say we were really
bracing for impact. It wasn't a great
session for the US overnight and there
was a lot of concern being sparked by
President Trump essentially offering up
or or listing out these additional uh
tariff rates that are said to be imposed
come August 1. But I think if there's
anything we can really take away so far
in early trading this morning is that
the doors been opened a little bit and
you've got that sort of extra breathing
space. says more room now for
negotiations and that is really what
traders seem to be paying attention to.
So you see for instance the nicay here
climbing the cost be standing out 1.5%
to the upside. So that's really sort of
the the key message. Yes, we're facing
this renewed tariff fallout but we don't
have it just yet and so that's what
investors can really focus on this
morning and you are seeing that sort of
steadiness coming across the dollar
gauge for instance the Bloomberg dollar
gauge. Yes, we did see a jump but today
we're retreating a little bit. you're
not seeing that much of a bid into gold
for instance fairly flat and the safe
havens like the Japanese yen again
looking fairly steady so far but it is
interesting when you dig into the
earnings that we had today as well
because that is really where you're
seeing the impact of these ongoing trade
tensions between the US and China yes
this isn't so much tariff related it's
more on the chip curbs but the story
here has really been clear you saw a
very big dent to Samsung's profit again
off these chip curbs given that it's had
to find new markets it's very reliant on
China as well particularly uh for things
like sales of HBM and so you're seeing
here some very much fluctuating moves
we've had in the session Samsung
fluctuating between gains and losses now
fairly steady but again some of its
major supplies in focus going into the
session today in China when you take a
look at what we're seeing in futures so
far I think yes we're looking fairly
steady I think what's going to be really
interesting to watch what's the kind of
signaling that we get with with the
offshore yuan fixing this morning will
the PBOC be looking to kind of make a
statement with this maybe push it a
little bit lower. Does that also have
those sort of second order implications
for currencies like the Aussie dollar?
Of course, very trade sensitive to
what's happening in China. Again,
focusing more on that FX story this
morning. You are seeing a little bit of
strength coming so far into currencies
really across the border. Again, that
bit of dollar weakness coming through.
It's a very different story of to what
we had like 12 hours ago.
Yes, we were talking about is this going
to be a mini liberation day? You know,
are we going to see April all over
again? No. Right. You take a look at
what the moves are in the price action.
In fact, it's quite moderate, right?
Perhaps the market is taking a bit of
solace and finding some solace in the
fact that Trump said this there is an
extension now, right? We have three more
weeks of negotiations that we could
still see here. We could still see
better trade deals and the numbers that
we've seen in these tariff rates so far.
It's not a huge change from what is
initially been announced. So, you know,
what you're seeing in the FX markets, we
initially saw that big slump in the yen,
big slump in the one. We're coming off
that a little bit now. So at least maybe
we're taking a little bit of relief
across what we're hearing from the
president in the last 24 hours or so,
right? So he sound he has though at
least at breed at least more further
confusion over his tariff plans, right?
Because there's still a lot of
uncertainty out there. He say he's
flexible when it comes to this new
August 1st deadline for deals just hours
after signing off on it.
I would say firm, but not 100% firm. If
they call up and they say would like to
do something a different way, we're
going to be open to that. But
essentially, that's the way it is right
now.
So, let's bring you up to speed, right?
The president earlier sent letters to
trading partners threatening higher
tariffs, including 25% rates on Japan
and South Korea. So, let's sort through
all this and bring in our chief major
correspondent, Stephen Engel. Joining us
from Tokyo is our Japan and Korea's
editor, Paul Jackson. Steve, I'll start
with you. So, we have a bit more
breathing room. How should we take this
latest announcement from Trump? The
market's always a good proxy for how
the, you know, investors are looking at
it. It's not the shock and awe that we
saw in early April. Uh what it is is a
bit of a wiggle room and delay for
negotiations to keep on happening. But
keep in mind, some of these uh tariffs
that you just saw on that graphic
indicate that negotiations didn't
necessarily work over 3 months.
No 90 deals in 90 days.
No, no deals really. Keep in mind, you
have a framework agreement with the UK.
a framework agreement essentially with
Vietnam. Uh and then you have a trade
truce and no real certainty where that's
going to go with China. That's it. Okay.
Do Donald Trump did say that they're
close to a deal with India. He did say
that this morning. Uh Cambodia has
indicated that they're closer to a
framework agreement. Cambodia did see
their 49% uh tariff on Liberation Day
come down to 36%. But look at Thailand,
36%. That's the same rate it was on
April 2nd, right? Uh so their
negotiations didn't necessarily pan out
at least right now. Indonesia also 32%
uh which was the same as in early April.
Uh and the the real shocker really is
Japan and South Korea. I say shocker
because it's essentially the same rate
that we saw in early April. Actually
Japan was increased by one percentage
point to 25. It was 24. South Korea
stays the same at 25%. But again, this
is not including the sectoral tariffs
like on steel and aluminum of 50%. And
automobile tariffs separate of 25%. Keep
in mind, Japan is the fifth biggest
source of US imports uh in 2024 and also
auto sector accounts for the most of
that US trade deficit with Japan. And
Ishiba, the prime minister, has been out
again saying uh some lines. We will
continue to project, excuse me, protect
Japan's national interest. It's
regrettable the US announced higher
tariff rates. This is though a de facto
extension for negotiations. And we do
know that his chief trade negotiator
Akazawasan has been to the US seven
times over the last few months trying to
get some movement with very little
progress. I might add. They did talk
with he did talk with Howard Lutnick at
least twice last week, Friday and
Saturday. Again, this is what it netted
25% tariff rate right now.
And Paul, I'll I'll bring you in here
because I think when we take a look at
the domestic situation in in Japan,
Korea as well, but Japan we can focus
on. I mean, it's not exactly the best
moment for for Tokyo to be trying to
strike a trade deal either.
Well, there are complications. I mean,
we have an economy that's been
contracting in the first quarter, so
there's a weakness there already before
all these tariffs come into play. We
have a domestic election here for a
minority government that's kind of
cobbling through uh uh trying to steer
policy uh without a majority and uh it's
got an upper house election where it
could be further uh weakened. So, uh, in
a sense, I think there's a huge amount
of relief in, uh, Tokyo that Trump
hasn't, uh, uh, really ramped up the
pressure on Tokyo. Don't forget, you
know, last week he was saying he might
go as high as 35%
uh, on Japan. So, I think there was a
lot of, you know, uh, worstc case
scenarios floating around. And remember
that Donald Trump has had a beef with
Japan since the 1980s. He took out
national ads in 1987 berating Japan and
its contribution uh to uh the uh
deficits in trade uh in the US. So I
think 25% is uh is a pretty good uh uh
result for Japan at the moment. And of
course, we got to use the word results
uh loosely because uh essentially he's
kicked the can uh down the road. And um
as Steven mentioned, where are the deals
here? I mean, we were promised deals,
you know, by this this uh uh the start
of the uh reciprocal tariffs kicking in
on July the 9th. So, I think what we've
seen with these letters is quite a lot
of political theater to cover up for the
fact that we don't really have many of
these amazing deals.
Uh Paul, you also cover Korea. I'm
taking a look at the Cosby and and it's
rallying quite a bit on relief of this
extension in some ways, but what what
sort of is the sort of still, you know,
needs to be decided with Korea? I mean
they they also dealt with their own
domestic turmoil uh with what was
happening with the president and you
attempt to impose martial law. Where do
things stand in Korea now?
Well, I think you know the situation has
been different uh for South Korea
because of this uh you know leadership
vacuum uh that followed all the uh
dramatic events of uh last year and
through this year the impeachment and
ouster of former uh president Yun. Uh so
I think the US has been a bit more
understanding that an extension uh was
needed uh for South Korea. Uh we saw the
trade minister uh in DC at the weekend
and the kind of language that was being
used were that negotiations were taking
place in good faith and that's kind of
code word for you've got an extension.
So this is kind of confirmation uh that
uh uh the talks can can go on. uh both
Japan and South Korea will continue to
seek a deal and try and get these uh
tariffs down uh during the intervening
uh period. I think South Korea on a
similar tack to Japan is trying to like
promote the idea of investment
partnerships in in manufacturing helping
uh uh US uh in those respects. Uh for
South Korea, there's also been quite a
lot of talk about digital uh
restrictions and how this impinges on US
tech companies. Now, if you've seen
Donald Trump, how he responded to uh you
know, digital restrictions in Canada and
how u the Canadians Carney had to back
down on that, uh you'll know that the US
does take those matters very seriously.
And Steve, we've got Secretary of State
Marco Rubio heading to Malaysia. I mean,
he's probably going to be wanting to
make the case. Look, I'm not responsible
for these trade negotiations or I'm not
leading them, but I mean, you can bet
it's going to be coming up in a lot of
conversations.
Oh, I think he has a lot of uh answering
of questions to be done obviously
because of the Azian nations that have
been hit so hard by the tariffs and
Indonesia, you know, is one of them. 32%
no difference from the initial tariff
and they had also indicated that there
were about to strike a bold agreement
with the United States. Uh but keep in
mind Indonesia is also a relatively new
member of BRICS. That was the whole
story yesterday about brick Donald Trump
warning BRICS nations to uh not uh abide
by essentially some of the calls uh by
other members of the brick nations to uh
condemn US policies not only in the
Middle East but on what they see as
unilateral trade policy by the white
house. So again, Indonesia in a bit of a
tricky spot, but Indonesia had indicated
that they were close to a deal with the
United States on critical minerals,
energy, defense cooperation, market
access. Thailand too, keep in mind
Thailand uh same reciprocal rate at 36%.
They had been making a number of last
ditch efforts to avoid that tariff rate,
greater market access for US farm and
industrial goods, possibly buying more
Boeing jets, purchases of US energy. But
as Paul just indicated, where did these
negotiations get them right now? It got
them the same tariff rate essentially.
Well, actually, Indonesia and Thailand
exact same rate and no promise that in 3
weeks there's going to be uh any
progress. So, yeah, I think the Azian
meeting and minima
is there. Uh so, we're going to get a
lot of up, you know, updates from her on
that Azian meeting with Marco Rubio
there. Yeah, it'll be certainly going to
to Mimman for all the latest there. But
that was our chief North Asia
correspondent, Steven Engel, as well as
our Japan and Korea's editor, Paul
Jackson. Really great way you put it
there. Political theater is maybe what
we're seeing. But we're going to get
more details on this, the the impact
that it's having as well on companies
and different business operators across
the US. We'll be speaking with the CEO
of the footwear distributors and
retailers of America very shortly again
on the impact of tariffs and on supply
chains, retail prices as well. And
subscribers can also turn to the
terminal for more on this. T Live Go is
your function for the latest updates
plus commentary analysis from our expert
editors. Plenty of headlines that we got
to dig into the next few hours or so.
We're cutting down the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong Kong. This
is the China Show.
[Music]
Just got the Yuan fixed crossing this
morning and we have seen it coming in at
71534. The estimate had been for 71796.
So pretty much kind of a a fixing that
we've had in line over the past few
days, but certainly we have seen both
the offshore and onshore yuan really
under pressure. And that was not just
with President Trump sort of ratcheting
up these these tariff threats, but also
really putting any country that aligns
with with the anti what he would say is
the anti-American policies of bricks,
but very much in the firing line.
Yeah. And I think the POC I mean this is
stronger than expected by quite a bit.
So in a way they're trying to make a
send a signal of maybe they are sort of
maybe anchoring those expectations that
they are still leaning into a strengthen
or at least keeping this currency stable
for now. Joining us is Amy Shapatrick,
head of income strategies at Pendle
Group. I take a look what's going on
bonds, Amy, and it's quite a confusing
backdrop right now, right? You see this
push and pull between what the Fed's
going to do, whether rates are going to
be cut, and you kind of square that with
all these macro themes of tariffs and
fiscal deficits that might widen due to
this big beautiful be bill in the US.
What matters more to you now?
Look, I think what's mattered mattered
for me for bonds all the way through is
um trying to kind of steer clear of the
the macro headlines and the noise
because as you see, you know, um one day
tariffs and and Ober matter a lot and
and the next day they don't and the
market um likes to discount these these
waves of headlines as time goes on. for
for us um at Pendle you know what we
continue to focus on not just for bonds
but for every asset class is what
ultimately does matter cycle after cycle
regime after regime and with bonds you
know it's it's going to sound really
boring but I'm focusing on what is going
to happen to the inflation picture both
near-term and longer term and also where
is growth headed and I think you know on
on the inflation side the market
continues to be really surprised that
you're still not seeing um you know to a
large degree any feed grew into CPI from
the tariffs that have been levied so far
and you know whether it's producers
eating the costs along the way whether
it's the exporters um you know eating
some of the costs along the way or
whether it's just delays because for
contractual reasons maybe some of these
price hikes can't be passed through I'm
not sure so near-term yeah maybe we need
to worry a little bit about inflation
but longer term I think the trajectory
for disinflation is still well anchored
when you look at the wages picture in
the US especially
So then what does that tell you about
the the expectation for Fed easing? How
many cuts are you looking at this year?
Look, I think um the I would I would on
the side of uh slightly more than what
the market's been price pricing in. And
that's not just because, you know, I I
work in fixed income and I'm I've been
trained to like bonds, but really it's
to do with um the risks um and the
direction that they're tilting towards.
Right. So on the inflation front as I
just said when you look at the loosening
that continues to happen albeit
gradually in the US labor market it does
underpin the wages picture um when you
look at shelter inflation that's well
under control as well. So yeah we we'll
get a little bit of a bump probably on
CPI due to some of these tariff effects
but that they will and I hesitate to use
the the term trans they will be
transitory um in my opinion but on the
growth side I think you will start to
see a little bit more weakness comes
through coming coming through. I mean,
we're still waiting to see, you know,
the follow through from the crash in
capex intentions when you survey small
businesses and large businesses across
the US. Um, and, you know, a little bit
of softness probably does, uh, alongside
a disinflationary picture probably does
warrant, you know, one to two more cuts
than what has been currently priced in
by the markets for the US.
How do you look at positioning in this
market right now? How difficult, Amy, is
it to be a bond trader these days given
all these sort of conflicting forces
that are impacting where this yield
curve goes?
I think it really depends on um what
kind of a time horizon you hold as a
bond trader. Look, for for us as active
investors in fixed income, we go in
fixed income wherever we think the
lowest hanging fruit is. And you know,
you can probably judge by um all all of
the push and pull forces we've been
discussing so far today. There is no
clear direction near-term for bonds
right now. I think you'll have a couple
of moments in the year and we probably
already had one of them already. Um that
was the April episode where bonds will
look really attractive and and they'll
look like a bit of a shoe in. Definitely
not one of those moments for for your
typical, you know, high-grade government
bonds right now. But there are other
places in fixed income that I prefer.
And you know, again, it sounds boring,
but fixed income is boring and it will
be your your acrruel type trade. So
it'll be credit and maybe even going a
little bit further up the risk spectrum
because as we know default rates are
well under control um even in the high
yield space and reaching a little bit uh
further out for just that little bit
more carry still focusing on you know
the quality of the balance sheets that
you're buying into is probably the lower
hanging fruit in fixed income right now
and I'm waiting for the data show to
show me a more concise uh set of um you
know signals for um that second moment
in every year when when bonds have a
really good time.
We've got a couple of different key bond
auctions coming up this week, but in the
US for instance, 3 10 30 year just this
week alone. So what sort of demand
picture are you are you looking at?
Um we've been tracking what the demand
picture has looked like for for US
auctions over um the past few months
actually and for all the fears that you
know maybe foreigners especially the
Asian central banks um the ones with you
know net high savings are starting to
buy less and less of US treasuries
you're not really seeing that come
through in the overall data um I would
say though that um there is a bit of a
question mark on the very longerdated
issuance and you know um Scott Bessant
has also said he will issue to wherever
the demand demand is I think that for
the for the way that the yield curve is
shaped, the demand is probably still
going to be more at the front end of the
US curve than towards the back end and
the back end will continue to suffer
from, you know, these structural issues
about illquidity, you know, who really
uses 30 years and of the bond traders in
the world, you know, who really manages
their duration using um a 30-year bond
or or even a 30-year future compared to
um something more standard such as a
5year or a 10ear. So, I do think the
liquidity issues will continue to plague
um the 30-year part of the curve, and it
just may mean not nec necessarily higher
yields overall, but maybe higher
volatility overall at the longer part of
the curve. Um but I continue to see, you
know, decent takeown of um the the
shorter to to belly of the curve type
auctions coming out from the US. Amy,
you you mentioned that you don't really
want to talk about whether, you know,
treasury are still that risk-free haven
and whether that's in jeopardy right
now, but you you mentioned in your notes
that, you know, bonds were never
designed to be the slave asset class
to stocks. Can you explain that a little
bit?
Oh, absolutely. Look, I actually spent,
you know, maybe the first 10 years of my
career as a bond trader, a fixed income
trader, thinking, oh, you know, when
when equities have their moment, when
equities have a severe draw down, you
got to own bonds because that's that's
what what happens, right? Bonds are
supposed to rally when equities have um
a big draw down moment for for whatever
reason. And you know, 2022 showed us uh
all across the world that, you know,
this is plainly not true. And this is I
come back to my earlier point at the
beginning of this show where um at
Pendle we really do focus on the
fundamentals that drive bonds. So if
you're in a situation whereby you know
you do have significant growth concerns
um ahead of you but at the same time
inflation is just not under control
these are what we call the fundamental
push and pull forces on bonds right and
in that moment equities aren't going to
do well but bonds aren't going to do
well either. So what I mean by the
statement that bonds are not a slave
asset class to equities is that there's
just nothing intrinsically within bonds
that tells them they have to rally when
equities sell off. So in terms of you
know discussing the overall haven nature
of uh you know the argument that's going
on about whether US treasuries can
continue to be your safe haven um going
forward I think for me it comes back to
this overall discussion that let's not
pretend that bonds will necessarily be
that defensive balance against equities
in every equity selloff.
Really great insights this morning. That
was Amy Shiatrick the head of income
strategies at Pendle Group. Thanks very
much for joining us this morning and
counting down to the open of trade in
Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Shanghai. Futures
are looking like this and we'll have
more details just ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Just a few minutes away from the open
this morning and we are actually seeing
futures pushing higher here. Hong Kong
up 210 of a percent in pre-market, but
investors seem to be shrugging off this
risk of additional tariffs.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show this morning and we're counting
down to the open of trade. Look,
actually the day is look looking like
it's going to end up being a bit more
positive than perhaps we could have
expected. Yes, we had a bad day on Wall
Street overnight, but coming into the
session this morning, investors do seem
to be taking some some relief in the
fact that President Trump we do have
this prospect of additional tariffs, but
we do have a larger window now for
negotiation.
Yeah. And those tariff rates as as
announced did not really change too much
from what the initial threats were,
right? So, you got to wonder 90 days
what what was actually achieved. That
certainly is one question, but at least
there's three more weeks of negotiations
possibly between nations in the US. So I
think the market is taking that as
positive news. I think, you know, the
can has been kicked for another month or
so. So certainly that's one thing that
we're dealing with here is a bit of a
relief rally, right? Especially in
Korea. We're up about more than 1% on
the costby here right now. But yes, you
take a look at how the onore markets are
dealing. It's pretty much flat uh right
now. Keep in mind the tariffs that we
got in the last 24 hours or so were had
nothing to do with China in some ways.
So therefore, we're not really seeing
that big of a hit, I guess, directly
when it comes to China here today. Uh
we're flat when it comes some of these
benchmarks here as well. We're watching
very closely what happens with Shanghai
crude. That's up about 1 and a half%. So
you're still seeing at least uh some a
bit there when it comes to oil markets
there. Uh and you take a look at some of
these big names, not a whole lot of
movement in the likes of CL or Ma Group
here this morning as well. Fit the
boards. Uh certainly Hong Kong is one to
watch here. We're going to have a big
deep dive segment into the whole IPO
market with Hong Kong Exchange a little
bit later on. But yes, you're seeing
modest gains at best here, but certainly
uh the fact that you know you are seeing
a bit of relief even when it comes to
the dollar uh now. So the big thing the
big move initially was the slump in the
yen slump in the run EM FX currencies
the worst days since April and things
are coming off now right. So certainly
that's helping overall lifting boats
here in risk assets this morning. But
yes, you are seeing uh there still some
weakness in the yen. But look, you're
seeing more strength coming through in
the Juan uh in the South African rand uh
but we're still seeing that weakness in
the Brazilian reality. So there's still
a lot of uncertainty about what this
means uh to the whole EMFX complex,
right? Because the dollar actually did
gain a bid and actually rallied and
gained the most for some time. Uh but
then that's now losing a bit of steam
because the the euro is gaining once
again because there was reports from
political saying that the US might be
ready to strike a deal with the EU at
10% tariff levels. So that certainly is
lifting the euro this morning and maybe
reversing some of the gains that we did
see in the last coming hours or so. US
futures are pretty flat right now. So I
guess we'll take it as good sign that
things are not selling off massively.
And you take a look even the likes of
Goldman just raised their 12-month price
target for the S&P 500 to 6,900. There
are still bulls out there that think
this equity market can rally back to
those record highs. So certainly that's
one thing to watch very closely. Gold,
it's not doing too much as well. So
havens are not really getting bit up.
Treasury yields actually headed higher
overnight as well despite some of the
riskoff moves that we did see initially.
Well, yeah, let's uh talk about the
impact of course all of these this
tariff news and the reaction to it as
well for for businesses with Matt
Priest. He's president and CEO of the
Footwear Distributors and Retailers of
America joining us this morning from
Washington. So, thanks very much for for
making the time for us.
you you you're dealing with a lot of
business different businesses and I
think what makes the US footwear market
so unique is that yeah maybe you
manufacture 25 million shoes in the or
pairs of shoes in the US per year but
you're importing more than 2.3 billion
so so a lot of these shoes have to come
in from abroad how are you interpreting
the the tariff agreements or at least
ceasefire that we had so far and and
what was announced overnight as well
yeah these are all great questions you
know for us 99% % of shoes sold in the
US are made overseas. You just mentioned
the billions of pairs we bring in and we
just majority of our shoes come from
just three countries, China, Vietnam and
Indonesia. So as an industry, we have to
look at each of those countries and
where they fall within this different
matrix that the president and his team
have laid out there. You have China on
pause till August. You have Vietnam with
the framework that was announced, but no
details have been released. And then you
have Indonesia that received a letter
today from the president. So, we've got
a kind of a a ball on each of these
courts and we're trying to best plan and
prepare in a in an inflationary
environment where we already pay high
duties and we have a concern that while
there's a a reprieve for a number of
weeks, we're going to continue to see
high duties and that will drive up
prices for consumers. And I can tell you
that our consumers are weary. They're
worn down. Uh and but that's the
environment we find ourselves in right
now.
You've been working the phones, Matt.
you've been saying for the last few
hours and I'm guessing the next last
this weekend as well. What what's the
overall sentiment like among some of
your footwear distributors out there and
and on these tariffs and and should are
they assuming higher tariffs moving
forward?
Yeah, it's a great question. So, we put
out a Q2 survey, uh, like an executive
survey of our members just a week or two
ago, and they all see it the next six
months as very difficult, a very
strained American consumer that's worn
down by increases with the potential of
higher prices, particularly as we head
back to school. And so, they already
have kind of a dow look over at least
over the next 6 months. And so what we
find now is that like the the jerk and
the pull and the push as it comes to
policy is very difficult to plan. But I
can tell you there's a resiliency and at
this point our industry's saying to
themselves, we just need to wait till
the dust settles. We need to understand
kind of the full bingo card before we
get back to making sourcing decisions
that are critical to our businesses. And
so until we understand what the tariff
rates with the negotiated outcome with
Vietnam will be, until we understand
where Indonesia lands come August 1st,
where the Chinese are headed, it's going
to be really difficult for our members
to make any kind of strategic decisions
from a sourcing perspective. Uh, and I
can tell you we've been diversifying
since 2010. So, we know how to do it.
But right now, you just don't know what
you know where the landmines are
relative to the to the sourcing
landscape. And until those rates are
set, we're not going to be able to make
those kinds of decisions.
Matt, that US and Vietnam trade deal,
what came part of it was that 40% tariff
on trend shipping from Vietnam.
You know, it seems like it's a indirect
way of trying to at least deter activity
from Chinese exporters to reroute some
of their products away from Southeast
Asia. You know, how effective do you
think that that's going to be?
Well, there's a little confusion in the
marketplace to be honest with you, Ivon.
So, we know that trans shship shipment
is already illegal. So, routing products
through illegally or mislabeling them uh
from an origin perspective is not
permittable under US law. And our our
members know this very, you know, very
closely and intimately. And so, they
work very hard to ensure that they abide
by US law. Uh what I think the
administration is getting at is relying
on materials to flow through. And under
current law, at least for footwear, we
have this tariff shift rule of origin.
So uh origin is transferred to a to the
country where the last substantial
transformation takes place and then
exported to the US market. And we've
been using utilizing that for a long
time. Uh our concern is that with any of
these reciprocal agreements, if there's
a really high threshold that requires
materials be sourced from within the
countries of the agreement, uh our
members won't use it because they won't
have the ability to bring those
materials in, at least right now, to
start to fully integrate their supply
chains within that home country, and
they they just might just go back to
China. So, we've been we've been
advising the administration that if they
go down this route, one, it's a it's a
heck of a thing to enforce, but two, uh,
the other consideration is the fact that
it just takes time for our supply chain
to catch up and for those materials to
come fully into the production country.
Uh, and they got to give us some time to
do that to to comply with the new
arrangement, whatever that rate might
be.
Yeah. On that point of of of I mean,
lobbying is a key part of your role. So,
how have the conversations been with
officials in Washington and are they
listening to your concerns?
Uh, we have found the administration to
be open and to conversation to
discussion and to our point of view. Uh,
clearly the president of the United
States has to make the final decision
based on what he thinks is important for
his agenda. Uh, we continue in a very
respectful way to push back when we
think that driving up prices on American
consumers on products that they have to
buy and have to buy from overseas
sources is not the way to go. The
president's mandate was to lower prices
on day one and adding, you know,
billions of dollars in new costs on
American businesses will not do that.
And we were encouraged when the
president just a few weeks ago said at
the tarmac outside Air Force One that he
wasn't looking to prop up domestic
production of footwear with these
policies. So our hope is that as
negotiators continue to finalize these
reciprocal agreements that they might
actually build out a little bit of
nuance amongst the tariff rates and so
that we're not hit as much or not at all
to be honest with you. while they look
at maybe more strategic industries. Uh
and so that's our been our focus. We
continue to be the voice in the industry
with the administration as well as with
our trading partners and the negotiators
within the trading partner countries to
ensure that they're coming to the table
with a robust offer and an openness to
negotiate and that's been critical I
think to our continued success as we
engage with both sides.
Can you tell us more about what the cost
pressure some of your members are facing
here right now? I mean, just given where
tariffs stand right now, I mean, how
much more is a pair of shoes going to
cost now to consumers and and what does
it mean for the whole capex cycle for
some of your members?
It's really difficult to really
articulate how historic this time period
is to be honest with you. uh when the
president announced on April 2nd
liberation day from the Rose Garden to
the White House, uh he was focused in on
driving up tariffs and for us we were
going to go under his new plan from
about two to about $3 billion a year in
tariffs to $10.2 billion. Now clearly
those numbers have come down, but the
the fact of the matter is we still are
going to have record tariff collection
on top of our industry. So that's going
to be record prices going up. In fact,
we saw in April just alone tariffs on
kids shoes went up nearly 300%
year-over-year. And so when we look at
those kinds of increases, the front
loading that took place to avoid some of
these tariffs so we can get those those
goods to US consumers at price
competitive levels, uh we're going to
see a consumer that's as we head into
back to school around that August 1 date
that now we all have our eyes on, uh
we're going to see higher prices. And
most of our brands have announced that
they're going to have higher prices. is
they've said it publicly. They've said
it in public earnings. Uh they've said
it uh in partnership with their retail
partners. And so it's an inevitability
that this is coming. And I think the
challenges for the American consumer,
it's not just footwear. It's everything.
Everything is being hit right now. And
so this shotgun approach is going to be
uh inflationary. So much so chairman pal
said he did lower rates because of the
tariff considerations. And I think we're
going to see that hit hit consumers here
very soon.
Matt, shoes are interesting because I
guess there's there's varying elasticity
of demand. I mean, things like school
shoes you may need, but you may not need
that latest pair of sneakers, for
instance. So, what's the impact to
businesses? And do you also speak with
businesses that think that they actually
just can't survive the impact of higher
tariffs?
Yeah, I would beg to differ. I think you
always need a good pair of sneakers, but
we can set that that conversation aside.
Um, I think ultimately we are an
industry where sometimes we are
recession proof. Sometimes consumers are
not going out and buying, you know,
automobiles or or washing machines and
they're picking up a nice pair of shoes.
But I can tell you many times, uh, when
we see prices go up, inevitably sales go
down. And prior to this inflationary
period we expect to come into, our sales
have been down. The consumer is spooked.
And that obviously concerns us. Uh, but
I've talked to a number I've talked to
hundreds of footwear companies, and all
of them are positioned a little bit
different in the marketplace, but one in
particular stands out to me. Uh, and
this is a a company, a family-owned
company importing shoes from China, 100%
China. Uh, and they make a a shoe that
had a 6% tariff on it. They brought in a
million dollars worth of shoes every
month. They had a $60,000 duty bill.
That duty bill went from 60,000 to 1.5
million for a time and now is down to
360,000.
And you can't survive when you have a
cost that's six times what you expected
in a very short amount of time. And so
they're doing everything they can to to
save off extinction. But I've had these
conversations over and over and over
again. It just speaks to the nature of
we're an industry that went out that
blazed trails that found great product
for our consumers and brought those back
to our shores. And now our own
government is punishing us for doing
that, for being innovative, for being
for exploring and for finding great
product and working with uh uh cons with
producers all over the world. Uh and now
we're left holding the bag with these
higher tariffs all the while with the
White House says we're not a priority
from a domestic production perspective.
So we want the policy to line up with
the rhetoric. Uh and we're working
towards that right now.
All right, Matt. Thank you. Matt Priest,
president and CEO of Footwear
Distributors and Retailers of America.
And subscribers can watch us live and
see our past interviews in our
interactive TV function, TV go. You can
also dive into any of the securities or
bloom functions that we talk about and
become part of the conversation. Send us
instant messages throughout the shows.
Check it out at TV go.
[Music]
All right, it is happy birthday bond
connect. That anniversary ceremony is
underway here in Hong Kong this morning
and as they mark of course uh of course
is opening up and they they've announced
a little bit of this right. So, uh, the
HKMA chief Eddie Yu did speak about this
and saying that look, the southbound
bond connect to include brokerages,
insurers, and they are going to be
expanding the offshore remb repo
business as well and increasing that
bond swap transaction limit. That's what
we've been hearing from the PBOC
officials there this morning there as
well. So, certainly some good news
coming through there. Yeah. And and it
also is interesting in terms of the
timing because we did have a really
great Bloomberg scoop on this yesterday
talking about also the plans around
around the southbound bond connect
looking at maybe doubling uh the amount
that that investors or local investors
can use to buy bonds overseas. That's
according to sources familiar with the
matter. But essentially maybe looking at
expanding this program to as much as 1
trillion yuan or or around 140 billion
US. But for more on this let's bring in
our China credit reporter Trista Shini
Lu. So Trista
I mean just based off what Ivana said
there also your reporting how how are
you uh talk to us about this scoop
essentially. Yeah. So we heard from
sources that the annual quotota will be
increased to 1 trillion um yen and you
also allow allowed non uh bank financial
institution to join this um and which
means like the local investor can rent
up um exposure to international bonds
listed in Hong Kong stock exchange
including the dollar bonds and off also
offshore un dominated bonds.
What's the bigger picture? What's the
goal here? Yeah, I think it shows uh
Chinese government effort to loos up uh
its um control on financial flows and
also trying to boost its um
international appeal of the UN. Um you
know like China has been criticized for
years about its capital control which
means its market is um obviously closed
up of the the rest of the world. So I
think um that's show part of its effort
to do that and I think this also offer
more uh local investor for uh more
higher yield products you know compared
to onshore products obviously offshore
product have better y
so what would be sort of the timeline I
mean we just got there this this this
expectation that we are going to see
further expansion but do we know
anything more on when we would expect it
to take place
yeah we haven't heard from sources about
the timing But if it comes true, it's
actually a good news, right? And I think
it also shows Chinese officials uh
comfortable about trying to um try push
more about the um uh UN's uh
internationalization as we all know that
the dollar has plummeted a lot this
year. So I think they seize the chance
to do it right now.
All right, Trista. Thank you. Trista Law
there, our Bloomberg China credit
reporter with the latest when it comes
to Bond Connect. In some other corporate
headlines that we're tracking this
morning, Bloomberg has learned that
Apple's top executive in charge of AI
models is leaving the company for Meta.
Sources say Roman Pang is joining Meta's
new super intelligence team after being
offered a package worth tens of millions
of dollars per year. Pang joined Apple
from Alphabet in 2021 and have been
running a roughly 100person team
responsible for the company's large
language models. Epic Games has settled
its antirust case against Samsung
Electronics. The suit alleged that the
electronics giant conspired with
Alphabet's Google to block rival app
marketplaces through default settings on
Samsung mobile devices. The Fortnite
maker says it's grateful that Samsung
will address its concerns, but didn't
elaborate further. Plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, Samsung has reported its first
profit decline since 2023, partly citing
the impact of US chip curbs on China.
Our team at Bloomberg Intelligence says
pressure from those curbs as well as US
tariffs will continue to weigh on
Samsung's numbers. For more, let's bring
in Bloomberg Intelligence senior
technology analyst Masahiro Wakasugi.
Masakiro. I mean these numbers very very
far short of what analysts had been
expecting. But just break it down for us
in just in the preliminary figures. What
stood out to you in particular?
Yeah. Uh yes. Uh the Samsung operating
profit was around 26% lower than the
consensus but uh partly that was
expected already. And uh if we look at
the Samsung's earnings uh probably uh
foundry business is making a quite a big
loss that is affecting the overall
operating profit and the operating
margin in the second quarter preliminary
number is around 6.8% 8% operating
margin which compares with over 40%
operating margin for SK Hanks in Q1 and
Micron operating margin was also high
above 20%. So and the Micron is
expecting over 30% operating margin in
the uh coming quarter. So uh maybe the
the situation is not really good for
Samsung and partly because of foundary
business but uh you know as you can
imagine that their HBM uh memory chips
it's used for the AI uh function uh the
HBM business has been quite struggling
with improving profit uh I mean
production yield so that is also
affecting the operating profit at this
point.
Yeah, it's interesting, right? It short
term it seems like, you know, Samsung's
profit might be trailing the likes of
SKH Heinix, but you Morgan Stanley has
an interesting note saying that they see
a credible bull case around HBM4.
Are you not as as optimistic, Masa?
What's your take overall?
Yes. Uh now uh the main uh competition
is about the HBM 3e and HBM HBM 4 will
be coming next year and I kind of sense
that uh Samsung may have to uh catch up
with quite aggressively because uh
Micron is already supplying HBM you know
for uh chips as well as SK Hank. So
competition has already started and the
HVM 3E generation uh Micron and SKH
highix are already leading. So I think
that uh Samsung may have a chance to
catch up but uh still a bit of a long
way to go uh in terms of HBM 4. So maybe
we have to watch the you know situation
very closely going forward.
Masa thank you. Masahiro Wakasugi there,
Bloomberg Intelligence Technology senior
analyst joining us out of Tokyo on those
Samsung earnings. Uh we're just getting
some lines here, getting some reaction
from the Thai government. This is the
Ministry of Finance Chief PCI uh
reacting to of course this August 1st
deadline and saying uh that you know
they were a bit shocked about this 36%
US tariff rate. Uh but they should be
wrapping up talks by that August 1st
deadline. So, of course, uh we have been
able to push back at least or push a
little bit later this deadline. So,
certainly maybe that gives them a little
bit more wiggle room, breathing space to
see if they could bring up a better
offer, but yes, uh yeah, they were a
little shocked to say the least.
Well, yeah, I mean they were one of the
the countries to receive a letter in the
first batch and and the US looking to
impose 36% tariff on goods from
Thailand, also from Cambodia. So,
certainly we'll be feeling the effects
of that. Coming up in the next hour,
we're going to be talking about the
impact of all of this, particularly on
emerging markets in this region with
HSBC. We'll also take a deeper look at
the IPO market in Hong Kong as what has
been very much a banner year for
listings in the city. But we'll have
plenty more ahead. You're watching the
China Show and this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back to the second hour of the
China show. Here's a look at the HSI
half hour into the session. And you
know, it seems like things are looking
okay here after these latest roll out of
tariff announcements from President
Trump. We started the morning thinking
that it was going to look bad, like
maybe another April selloff, but then
again, you hear from President Trump
saying, "Look, that August 1 deadline is
not 100%. There's more room for
negotiations." So I think markets right
now bell really focus on this tariff
extension deadline more so than the
tariffs itself.
Yeah, just really opening the door. And
I think actually what's interesting when
you look across markets in Asia this
morning, Hong Kong is also standing out
just for the amount of trading volume.
So you're seeing volumes that are
actually pretty heavy in in this market
this morning, but across the rest of
them it's actually well under the 20-day
moving average. And so yes, we've got
this door that's being opened. Investors
are probably still just really pretty
nervous and a bit more in the wait and
see mode as well. So, not too much
conviction. Uh, but what you do see is
is at least some relief that's coming
into markets like the Cosby for
instance. Also notable because you had
those results out for Samsung, the heavy
weight on the benchmark and you're still
not seeing heavy losses there even
though we saw really the first profit
drop going back a couple of years. But
in the session today, there has well
been that big focus on currencies again.
We had that expectation. We had the hit
to EMFX overnight. It hasn't translated
into the session so far this morning.
But the Korean one was very much the
standout yesterday. Today you're seeing
uh that bit of strength against the
green back here. The euro of course and
this is sort of the big wild card in all
of these negotiations because we've got
this reporting out from Politico this
morning but essentially the EU could
have been offered a 10% tariff deal.
Again, we'll get into the deal that does
or the the details of that. It certainly
does carry some caveats. And then of
course watching Toyota of uh the the
Japanese auto maker or the auto sector
in general are very sensitive to these
tariff uh these tariff results. But
again just that can that's been kicked
down the road a little bit it seems.
Yeah. Let's get to our top story here
right now which is President Trump has
shown some further confusion over his
tariff plan saying he'll be flexible on
a new August 1st deadline for deals just
hours after signing off on it. Now, the
president earlier sent letters to
trading partners threatening higher
tariffs, including 25% rates on Japan
and South Korea. Let's sort through all
this right now. Bring in our Bloomberg
chief North Asia correspondent, Stephen
Engel. Our Japan and Korea's editor Paul
Jackson joins us from Tokyo and maybe
the Southeast Asia impact as well. Our
economy reporter Cla Jao is in Jakarta
for us. Steve, let's start with you.
Some rates are higher, some are lower,
some are the same, but what does it tell
us about where trade negotiations stand
right now? Well, I think they are
ongoing and that the three months really
went by pretty quickly and uh there have
only been two framework agreements and a
trade truce uh announced by the White
House. So, you had the UK and Vietnam
having agreed to a framework uh of of
trade uh truce if you will, but then
there's a trade truce with China that
does not necessarily guarantee uh that
will uh hold water and and be a lasting
truth. So again, there are a lot more
negotiations still happening and so this
just buys a little bit of time while
also reaffirming uh Trump's commitment
to putting these tariffs on a number of
different countries, some of which did
not u come down. Uh some went up as
well. Uh so I think it's just that's why
the market's reacting the way it is
right now. They're seeing this as
essentially more time to get
negotiations done. I was just seeing a
comment from the Ministry of Finance out
of Thailand saying that 36% which didn't
move at all from April 2nd uh was quite
shocking but that they hope to conclude
their negotiations by August 1st. There
are many countries here and 90 days was
too ambitious to get a lot of them done.
Of course, the White House promised a
quite a few more deals would be done by
this time but it just didn't happen.
There was also, you know, some of the
attention in the White House was
derailed by what happened in Iran and
some other issues as well. So, we'll see
if this does buy them time and get more
deals done.
Yeah. And and and on the topic of
getting more deals done, I mean,
countries that really would be agitating
for that. Of course, Paul, Japan and
Korea, two of the US's main trading
partners in this part of the world. uh
what are the expectations and what are
we sort of seeing as the major sticking
points that are holding back a deal
being signed?
Uh well, I think uh uh for the case of
Japan, Donald Trump for decades has had
a beef with Japan over cars and uh uh
the amount of Japanese cars that get
sold in in the US without uh he says any
cars, US cars being sold in Japan.
That's not actually the case. Of course,
there are American cars here. Uh they
are rather large, rather difficult to
get around narrow Tokyo streets. But um
when you look at the uh trade deficit uh
with the the US, it's the uh the seventh
largest. Koreas is the eighth largest.
Um about 82% of that trade deficit with
the US is is down uh to the cars. So uh
is he going to give ground on that 25%
sectoral uh tariff on the cars? Now the
the Japanese side, they want to get all
this negotiation with the reciprocal
tariffs all done in one go with the auto
tariffs. They don't want to they don't
want to sign off on a deal for the
reciprocal tariffs and then leave the
sectoral tariffs on the autos in place.
So that's been one of the big sticking
points because from the US side, they're
kind of wanting to to get the reciprocal
tariff deal done and then leave the auto
tariffs kind of in in in the bag there.
So Japan's wanting an all allin-one kind
of deal. So that's been a sticking point
there. Uh over in uh South Korea, uh
we've had a leadership vacuum there. So
it's been very difficult for uh
negotiations to to pick up until
President Lee was installed. That's
early last month. So, an extension was
kind of all always kind of on the cards
uh for South Korea. Among the sticking
points there, I mean, there's also Altos
is a is a another uh huge uh part of the
deficit that the US has with South Korea
too. Uh they've also got chips to a
lesser extent. um and also has been
flagged are problems with the uh US tech
firms on digital uh restrictions and as
we've seen with what happened with
Canada, the US take those very
seriously.
Claire, uh jump in, maybe talk a little
about what's happening on your end, uh
we're seeing Indonesia markets open
right now. Not a whole lot of movement
there, but that 32% tariff rate seems to
be the same, unchanged. What's what's
the response from Indonesia this
morning?
I think the major reaction out of
Indonesia is really shock because until
ours last night, uh we were still
expecting that Indonesia was very close
to signing what it called a bold deal
with the US which involved around $34
billion in trade and investments. In
fact, our negotiators had already
pledged that they would buy more US gas,
wheat, and even Boeing jets. even
pledged preferential access to the
country's critical minerals and even
said that they would cut uh tariffs for
US imports to near zero and suddenly
last night uh all of that became uh
radio silence. Uh so we're still chasing
details from the government on what
exactly went down. Um, it could still be
true that Trump is just buying time
until the August 1 deadline to negotiate
more with its Indonesian counterparts,
but it could also be true that Indonesia
may have overplayed it its hand and it's
not really in as strong a bargaining
position as it expected. It was hoping
to get a tariff rate lower than
Vietnam's lower than 20% in the hopes
that it could get some FDI coursing back
into Indonesia because a lot of its
factories are already closing even
before the trade war.
Steve, we can bring you back in here
because I think sort of two of the deals
that we're really also anticipating are
India and also the EU, but but what's
going on because we've had sort of some
announcements or sources based
information coming through on both of
those this morning.
Yeah. And I I was just listening to
Claire and they're they're in a state of
shock in Indonesia right now because
Indonesia did think they were getting
much closer to a bold deal. Now does
that is that a harbinger for what's
going to potentially happen with India
and the EU because there's been optimism
over a possible India deal and in fact
India has said well we we are pretty
much done and I'm paraphrasing we're
pretty much done negotiating uh with the
United States uh we have put together a
good uh proposals it's now in the hands
of Donald Trump and essentially what
sources are saying it's it's up to
Donald Trump and Narendra Modi to come
up with some sort of agreement between
the two of them there are red lines in
India uh because of the agricultural
there's a the huge farm constituency in
India that is tied to Mod's party they
don't want genetically modified crops to
come from the United States into India
uh there they don't want dairy
necessarily and then there's an also
issues over automobiles so we'll have to
see on India okay they might be close
the EU there's optimism there as well
that they could possibly uh cement the
EU that is a baseline 10%. Which would
be comparatively speaking a good deal,
right? But again, this could fall apart
as well. There are a lot of contentious
issues. Donald Trump has been quite
viciferous against some of the
protectionist measures in the EU. So,
we'll have to wait and see on that.
There there's optimism there could be
deals over aircrafts and parts and uh
you know, wine and spirits, but you just
simply don't know. Again, I I think
Claire was spot on with the shock that
is happening in Jakarta right now. They
thought they had a deal and wham, they
got 36 32% which was the exact same
reciprocal tariff back in April.
Yeah, certainly just the content of
these letters and also who's going to
get the letters next because we know
that more are on the way. But
we could spend a whole show going
through country by country, but we're
not.
Yeah, we absolutely could.
That's our chief North Asia
correspondent Steven Angel there as well
as our Japan and Korea economy editor
Paul Jackson in Tokyo and our Indonesia
deputy bureau chief Cla Jao in Jakarta.
And actually just on that sort of
Southeast Asia angle as well, this is
another another country here just
talking about this this morning.
Malaysia, the trade ministry just noting
in the last few moments that they're
saying that they're continuing to engage
with the US on tariffs. They're also
saying as well that these efforts to
discuss with the US are ongoing, but uh
that constructive engagement and
dialogue they also say are the best path
forward. Yep. And I'm taking a look at
when it comes to Ringa here. Continue to
see a bit of weakness there on the back
of these tariffs. So certainly one to
watch here uh given just the the sort of
slashing that we saw at EMFX that has at
least stabilized in the Asia session
here today. Uh there's more ahead though
on how these latest threats could impact
Asian economies. We have Fred Newman
from HSBC joining us next on the China
show. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
I would say firm, but not 100% firm. If
they call up and they say would like to
do something a different way, we're
going to be open to that. But
essentially, that's the way it is right
now.
[Music]
President Trump there speaking after
issuing letters that threaten higher
tariff rates on trading partners,
including some in Asia. Let's bring in
Fred Newman now, chief Asia economist
and co-head of global research Asia at
HSBC. Fred, 90 days of trade talk seems
like we've yielded the same sort of
tariff rates since liberation day. Has
anything changed in your eyes?
Not really. We got a three three-we
reprieve, right? So essentially, it's
saying, look, we're going to go back to
April 2nd levels unless we can get a
deal in the next three weeks. And so
it's basically extending the deadline a
little bit. It's tight 3 weeks. Um but I
I'm sure that countries are not going to
scramble to try to you know fix a deal
just before August one because you can't
extend forever, right? Otherwise the the
taco kind of label really sticks. So I
think there is some pressure really to
come come to some deals uh by by August.
Um but that really this the markets
haven't reacted and so really today is
just a 3we extension more or less
and and but we were talking earlier with
with Amy Sheep Patrick about the the
inflation impact and how it's not really
feeding into consumers just yet. So
what's your expectations around price
pressures and do we start to see any
building do you think
the soft and hard data when are they
actually
so so eventually you would and and of
course markets are very impatient is
saying well we had tariffs already why
isn't showing up but the reality is that
actually the tariff level currently is
nowhere near as large as it will be
probably later this year once we get
some of these uh you know reciprocal
rates actually start to kick in. The
second issue is that we saw a lot of
frontloading ahead of the tariff. So you
have high inventories in the US and
really retailers are just reluctant to
raise prices too early, but at some
point they will have to because once
they start to buy new goods under the
new tariff regime, they'll have to pass
on some of these these uh price
increases. And so I I think we're we're
first panicked about inflation. Now
we're saying it's there's no inflation
at all and probably there's going to be
some inflation that will come through
eventually on this. So we just expecting
frontloading to continue then the export
picture still looks the same.
We have three weeks. You got to
frontload really really quickly, right?
So when does the data start to really
turn you think Fred?
Yeah, I I I think um look the front
loing is still we knew is already going
through July. Anyways, if you look at uh
what the US retailers are forecasting in
terms of the container imports uh really
April, May, June and July is running at
above year ago levels. But then you see
it drop off sharply into Christmas. So
what they've done is essentially they
move the pre Christmas shopping holiday
uh purchases into the second quarter and
so there will be a payback regardless of
what terrorists will get the second half
of the year and that's going to be a
challenge for Asian growth.
President Trump has made it pretty clear
that he's got bricks in his sights in
any country that he sees sort of
aligning with with that group as well.
Do we need to be concerned about that
having an impact uh particularly in
Southeast Asia?
So we don't have really details right
around this. What does it mean? When
does it kick in or not? I think what
this the broader lesson here is that
terrorists are becoming a broader tool
right initially was about we have a
trade deficit and we want to correct it
uh from from the perspective of the
United States and now it's sort of
starting to be used for other purposes.
Well, you're doing something I don't
like so maybe I'll put tariffs on me.
And so this is a widening of potential
use of tariffs and so it becomes a
political rather than economic question
and and so that that that introduces a
lot of uncertainty actually for
businesses because you don't know what
you know what the tariffs will be in the
next three to four months even if we get
the deals and and I think that
uncertainty in itself can be quite
harmful for global trade for crossber
investment and it's something we'll just
need to learn to deal with.
Yeah. I mean, he he says he's going to
slap more tariffs on, you know, BRICS
nations that uh have anti-American
policies. For example, the the trade
deal with US Vietnam seems to be
indirectly in some ways countering the
trans shshipment of goods from China in
some ways, right? Are we likely to see a
significant dent to Chinese exports for
example? Then
we could well so far we haven't, right?
The Chinese exports still booming and uh
so the question is really the details
and this with all trade agreements.
These headlines that we get often don't
really tell us much because do these
trans shshipment tears apply to pure
trans shshipments or to components or
not. So really it really depends how
it's actually implemented in practice
and we don't know as of yet. But
ultimately it's going to be problematic
for China if all countries suddenly
start to impose tariffs themselves as
well. So it is a challenge for Chinese
exporters even if they're super
competitive. um that uncertainty itself
will be a headwind for Chinese exports
for sure.
Yeah, I mean exactly to that point, you
know, the devil really is in the
details. We definitely don't have the
contours of any real agreement just yet.
So what does then stripping it back and
just sort of looking at base level right
now? I mean, how do you assess the
global economy right now? And do you
think it's it's holding up maybe better
than expected? It
it's definitely holding up better than
expected across the board. data is
surprising probably at the margin on the
upside. Second quarter GDP is still
coming in strong. The issue is though
this is the calm before the storm if you
will because the real impact of these
tariffs on consumer spending in the US
on inflation on trade flows once the
front loading kind of disappears uh then
we're going to get payback and that's
why uh we are looking at a slowing
economy into the second half of the year
and certainly by the fourth quarter
we've got to see pretty pretty pretty
weak numbers not just in the US but
really across many export reliant
nations and so as of now it still
appears here at equity markets for
example taking the glass half full view
here wow you know data is better than
expected and got a big beautiful bill
tailwind for the US but we haven't
really fully seen the the impact of all
the trade uncertainty yet but there must
be some impact coming through
are central banks going to have to step
in here in this part of the world are we
going to see a much deeper sort of rate
cutting
we will and they already did right so
you seen rate cuts coming still coming
and and the issue is that the more you
have tariffs in the US the more you have
defl inflation in Asia because a lot of
these goods that would have gone to the
US are essentially trapped outside the
US in Asia and depressing price levels
and that will open the door for central
banks to cut rates especially in an
environment where the dollar is actually
relatively weak. Um because last year
they couldn't cut because it defended
their exchange rates. Now they're saying
okay we don't care about the FX but
inflation is down and growth is down so
let's cut and so there's going to be
much more cuts to come. Um and and
that's you know that will last well into
into early next year.
So what's your expectation then of when
we see the start to to Fed easing
because this has also been sort of
jumping around you know midyear
September last week after the jobs
figures. What what do you see?
So we we still see September. Now the
market has pushed it back or at some
point a few weeks ago we talked July and
everybody got really excited about it.
Now the market saying more like October.
Uh for us it's September. It's really
once the Fed comes back from holiday,
summer holidays and uh we get better
sense of where the economy is going. So
September is the first time we could see
rate cuts. But um in our view the
market's pricing in too many cuts over
the cycle, right? So the market's
looking at one or 25 basis points of
cuts, huge easing cycle. I'm not so sure
the Fed can actually deliver that much
if you get the inflation from the
tariff. So it might be stuck at 50 75
basis points and cuts and that's it. Uh
rather than this huge prolonged easing
cycle.
What does that mean for the dollar? I
mean it seems like despite any sort of
news dollar still continues to be
weaker. Do you think see that as
structural weakness or something that's
I think we need to be careful not to
extrapolate first half of the year right
biggest depreciation since 1973
depending how you measure it but it's
it's a huge number. Um but if you think
that the Fed will not deliver as many
cuts as currently priced in. Um if you
think that the tariffs will be quite
disruptive for Asian growth, uh if you
think that actually um some of the
currency moves for FX hedging and that
will run its course because FX hedging
is quite expensive, then that would mean
that the depreciation pressure on the
dollars will ease into the second half
of the year. doesn't mean a strong
rebound, but it means that you know that
we don't extrapolate this this massive
weakness that we had a first half of the
year.
So yeah, because we we've been talking a
lot about these dollar dynamics and and
some of the the economists or investors,
traders are saying we could see maybe a
further 5% appreciation in the dollar
gauge from here through year end. But
but you're not saying that's going to be
the case.
I think that that's a that's a tall
order. I mean, it depends a little bit
on how China plays its cards. Is China
going to appreciate its currency? that
could give Asian currencies a bit more
tailwind. But you know even there
Chinese are moving very very gradually
on the fixings uh because they're facing
big tariffs and we know from the first
Trump administration that you know with
when faced with tariffs Chinese uh back
then at least saw more of a depreciation
of the currency rather than
appreciation. So it's not clear why now
the CNY should dramatically appreciate.
So it does seem that you know be be
careful what you what you expect second
half of the year is likely going to be
more flattening out of the dollar rather
than the further weakness. I think if
anything the second half of the year is
shaping up to be pretty bumpy given we
just got this can kick down the road to
August one but that was Fred Fred Newman
there chief Asia economist and co-head
of global research Asia at HSBC and
subscribers of course can also turn to
the terminal for more on this tive go is
your function for the latest updates
plus commentary and analysis from our
export edi expert editors rather we'll
have plenty more ahead this is Bloomberg
[Music]
In some corporate headlines this
morning, Bloomberg has learned that
Nissan is planning to issue $4 billion
in unsecured dollar and euro denominated
junk bonds, part of an effort to fuel
the automakers turnaround. A source says
the cash will be used for general
corporate purposes, including
refinancing debt and are expected to
price later on this week. That's on top
of $1 billion of new convertible bonds
Nissan announced on Monday. And Blubber
has learned that Apple's top executive
in charge of AI models is leaving the
company for Meta. Sources say roaming
Pong is joining Meta's new super
intelligence team after being offered a
package worth tens of millions of
dollars per year. Ping joined Apple from
Alphabet in 2021 and have been running a
roughly a 100 person team responsible
for the company's large language models.
Epic Games has settled its antirust case
against Samsung electronics. The suit
alleged that the electronics giant
conspired with Alphabet's Google to
block rival app marketplaces through
default settings on Samsung mobile
devices. The Fortnite maker says it's
grateful that Samsung will address its
concerns, but didn't elaborate further.
Taking a look at some movers in the
session so far. Just some reporting
that's come from the Securities Times,
but what they are saying is that New
World Development is seeking to sell a
portion of its K11 property in Shanghai.
Uh we know that New World's financing
generally has been back in the
spotlight. Uh they're certainly looking
at ways that they can shore up cash. uh
they had been planning to raise up to $2
billion through a new loan and that
actually was backed by another K11, but
this is the one at its Victoria Dockside
asset instead. But we're watching that
stock. Also taking a look at what's
happening with the automakers this
morning because of course a lot of the
focus is on Korea and Japan that are
bracing possibly for further tariffs.
Although the deadline for that has been
set at August 1 and that is sort of a a
a sense of relief perhaps that some
investors have this morning for that
being pushed down the road. More ahead,
this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading to that lunch break in just
a moment. But of course, we're still
dealing uh with of course how we to
digest these latest lines and tariff
announcements from the Trump
administration. At least markets are
taking in stride here right now. In
fact, uh seeing a little bit more relief
the fact that this tariff deadline or at
least the implementation of these
tariffs will be extended to August 1st.
So, Japan getting a higher just slightly
higher tariff rate. But then again, they
got three more weeks to discuss and
negotiate. We just heard from Katosan as
well, saying the Japanese government
continues to assess the economic impact
of these tariffs.
Yeah, and that's exactly what we've been
speaking with guests about this morning,
getting reaction to to Trump's latest
tariff threats uh throughout the shows.
But take a listen.
We're trying to best plan and prepare in
a in an inflationary environment where
we already pay high duties and we have a
concern that while there's a a reprieve
for a number of weeks, we're going to
continue to see high duties and that
will drive up prices for consumers. And
I can tell you that our consumers are
weary. They're worn down. Uh and but
that's the environment we find ourselves
in right now. I'm sure that countries
are not going to scramble to try to, you
know, fix a deal just before August one
because you can't extend forever, right?
Otherwise, the the taco kind of label
really sticks. So, I think there is some
pressure really to come come to some
deals uh by by August. Um but that
really this the markets haven't reacted
and so really today is just a three-we
extension more or less.
And for more on how markets are
reacting, let's bring in Mark Cranfield,
our MI strategist, joining us from
Singapore. Mark, it seems like markets
are at least, you know, glass half full
right now. Expecting Neil, we have three
more weeks to go before these tariffs
are implemented. How, you know, how
should we be interpreting what's been
going on in the White House and it seems
like a lot of the action, the price
action is really focused on the FX
markets. Will it stay that way?
I think you you've got a combination of
things here. As far as equities are
concerned, I think there's some some
hope here that worst case scenarios have
been avoided. That's why you're seeing
most Asian markets at least a bit higher
today.
It was only a week ago that Trump was
talking about possibility of 70% tariffs
on on some people. That seems to have
been avoided especially for the the ones
that matter the most, people like Japan.
So even if they do get um tariffs
imposed on them, it's not going to be as
severe as it as it may have been. So
that's something which is a bit of a
relief to people. In the in the foreign
exchange world, you still mostly have
this idea that in general investors
would prefer that the United States
didn't engage in trade wars at all
because it's seen as a as a kind of a
self harm for the US dollar overall. But
you do have this one exception today
which is the Japanese yen is
underperforming most of the other G10
currencies. Now that what's happening
there is that the fact that Japan has
still got to negotiate with the United
States has got a limited time and it
comes when there's a Japanese upper
house elections in less than two weeks
time. That is a worstc case scenario for
Japan's leadership. The LDP, the ruling
uh party there was already looking at a
very tight election anyway. And this
heaps more pressure on their leaders as
well, who already have a pretty low poll
ratings as well. They're they're only
seen as about 30% supported within the
the country going into this. So, it's an
absolute worst case scenario for the
Japanese leadership and that's being
reflected in what's happening in the
yen. has got more to do with what could
become a difficult political situation
in Japan rather than the tariff
situation which they need to clear up as
well. Um and as your as Fred Newman was
saying there from HSBC there'll be a lot
of pressure on people to get things done
by August the 1st and of course Japan is
working on that but there's no certainty
that they will be able to. So that's
making the yen a relatively easy
scapegoat for people in the foreign
exchange market. They're looking for
ways to play this. Um, obviously they
they don't mind shorting the dollar a
bit, but also they're shorting the yen
as well against a whole series of
currencies here.
Yeah, Japan doesn't really want to be
looking like they're maybe offering too
many concessions given those more
domestic political factors. But in the
interim, given we've still got now this
new time frame, August 1, what's going
to be most important or what else will
will traders be tracking closely?
Well, you also look at the um what it
means for the for the bond markets as
well. We're beginning to get an
assumption that there will be tariffs to
some extent. They might not be as bad as
was being talked about earlier in the
year, but tariffs are inflationary
definitely over a longer period of time.
So, you're seeing yield curves
steepening. There was a another move
last night in the Treasury curve that's
being replicated across markets today,
particularly pronounced in the Japanese
markets this morning as well. We're
seeing it in Australia and other places
as well. That theme has been on and off
to some extent, but mostly on over the
past few months. And it looks as though
it's going to have fuel to continue
right through the summer here because
that clearly if you've got America has
just passed this huge bill which is
obviously going to add to um situation
in um America where the the deficit is
going to widen. That's going to put
pressure on long-term yields as well.
You're seeing other countries having to
issue more at the long end as well.
Japan has tried to cut back slightly,
but you can see the market has got its
doubts about whether they're really
addressing stagflation issues or not.
And apparently they're not really
because the Bank of Japan is really
taking their time. So this steepening of
bond curves is going to be in place for
some time and it isn't something which
whether the tariffs come on the 1st of
August or they come later, it is going
to fuel inflationary expectations
anyway. So people seem fairly assured
that whatever happens, equity markets
can probably grind higher to a degree,
but they're going to be held back partly
by steepening curves and that isn't
something that's going to go away.
Mark, thanks very much for joining us
this morning. That was our MI strategist
Mark Cranfield there. And also just
taking a look at some of the more
interesting or notable moves in the
session so far today. And we're actually
seeing SMIC rising here. And it's an
interesting story because HSBC has
upgraded the stock to buy. They actually
had eight shares that are reduced
before, but they've lifted their price
target to $64 Hong Kong a share up from
$35. What they're actually saying is
that is that there's more scope for for
localized demand. So, they're expecting
SMIC to take on more market share
locally. That currently sits at around
25% of the over overall uh foundry
business or foundry demand within China.
They're saying that could grow even
further and is that continuing drive for
self-reliancy and SMIC has been a big
beneficiary from that. Samsung, I mean,
it's it's quite a different story for
that one today because they're actually
at risk of of of all of the impact of of
China curbs from the US.
Yeah, looks like it took a hit uh in the
the previous sort of earnings. So
certainly that's one thing to watch
here. The stock has basically been
fluctuating between gains and losses.
We're just slightly down for Samsung now
down about 610 of 1%. But the tech space
overall in Hong Kong is actually doing
quite well. We're seeing actually most
of these tech names actually rallying
here this morning.
Yeah. And just to note as well just on
that sort of chip story because we've
just had some lines dropping. Uh Taiwan
is saying that they're still in talks
with the US on tariffs. They're saying
they haven't received any US notice just
yet. Of course, they're waiting for
perhaps more letters to be sent. But if
this is a really big talking point
because Taiwanese chip companies are
under so much pressure to to send their
more advanced semiconductor technology
to the states.
Yeah, certainly that's one watch.
Taiwan, as we talked about, India, they
said, you know, our sources telling us
that they've already put their best
offer on the table and EU. I think those
three are some of the big ones to watch
in the coming hours and coming days as
well. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
All
right, we're going to talk about Hong
Kong's red hot IPO market. Right, we've
got a big number to tell you about. The
city has basically welcomed 45 new
listings on its stock exchange so far
this year, and it looks like there's
more to come. Tomorrow alone will see
six trading debuts just into tomorrow.
So certainly it's it's looking to be a
really bumper bumper bumper year and the
deals keep picking up right you like to
have the likes of PWC you likes of Deote
are now saying that Hong Kong is on
track to regain its position as the
world's top fundraising venue for IPOs
in 2025 with an estimated 90 to 100
companies raising up to 25 billion US.
The CS city is really benefiting as
Chinese firms seek fresh capital and
with geopolitical tensions luring
investors to shift cash away from the
US. And Bel, it's very interesting,
right? Amidst the sort of USChina trade
tensions, you're actually seeing Hong
Kong benefit as a destination for a lot
of these Chinese firms to come back
home.
Yeah, that's right. It's actually such a
fascinating story because as you said, I
mean, Hong Kong has been a market really
exposed to US China tensions, but what
you're seeing this year is just a
rebound in its equities. So the Hang
Sang for instance, you can see here that
jump of about 20% and again it's really
that sentiment that's been helped by the
wave of multi-billion dollar deals. So
let's bring in our panel of guests.
We've got Johnson Choy, head of global
issuer services at HKX and of course
Nelly Pi, head of Hong Kong IPO and
corporate finance group at JP Morgan. So
thanks very much to to both of you for
joining us this morning. But I'll start
I'll start with you Johnson because I
mean it's it's probably a really great
moment to be sitting in your position at
HK. So so what's really driving it?
seems like a lot of it maybe is is is uh
secondary listings or or follow on
listings. You've got sort of Chinese
companies looking to come to Hong Kong
as well. I mean what stands out to you
so that the most so far?
Yeah. No, thank you and good morning. Um
uh no so we've enjoyed very strong
momentum uh for the first half of the
year and you know really a key few key
themes and highlights. Uh so on the IPO
front uh for the first half over 14
billion US dollars have been raised. Uh
Hong Kong is the number one uh IPO
exchange globally uh in terms of
corporate IPO fundraisings. Uh amongst
the IPOs we've enjoyed CL you know
obviously landmark transaction raised
5.3 billion US um so so it's it's been
very strong but what's really
interesting is if you look through the
various IPOs the key thematics uh number
one it's very broad-based across many
sectors. So if you look at the IPOs
completed uh you know we've seen a lot
of successful IPOs in consumer retail
sector uh TMT new energy and and more
recently uh uh in the second quarter uh
you know a really proliferation of
healthcare transactions as well um and
then the second point is you know when
we look at these transactions um the
investor participation has been quite
broad-based uh so a lot of international
investors uh regional uh Chinese
investors um middle east and and retail
has also been back. Um, so so it's
actually uh quite broad-based and quite
strong.
Nelly, I'll get your take. How busy has
it been for your your team right now?
And what what confidence do you have
that this momentum can continue here?
Yeah, there's actually a total of 2,00
uh A1 filings as of June 30th. 228
actually is a very lucky number. So uh
we are talking to a lot of issuers and I
expect a lot of them will actually kick
off the process very soon. So we do
expect there will be a lot more uh
filings coming in in the third and the
fourth quarter. So uh to us this is uh
really sustainable. Yeah.
And just give us more context. I mean h
how many do you have in the pipeline
right now? Could you share any figures
for us and how much is that changing?
Uh the figure is definitely uh
increasing and then it's uh we have 2
228 for the first year. uh at first half
of the year I'm sure that will be pretty
much maybe increasing number for the
second half of the year.
Yeah.
Johnson uh the the mega deals like CL
that certainly was the the the
blockbuster one the first half. Are we
like to see some of these big big deals
come come through too?
Yeah. So if you look at the key
thematics and the buckets of deals and
just extending on on the pipeline over
200 uh companies that have publicly
filed but if you look at the various
categories uh these like larger ADH uh
transactions following the CL the hung
raise uh that that will continue. So if
we look at this bucket uh for the AH uh
transactions that have uh either
publicly filed or have publicly
announced their intention to to do a
second listing in Hong Kong, you know,
totals to uh over 50 of these companies.
So that's one bucket. Uh the second
bucket is consumer retail, you know,
extending the the momentum from the
first half. We'll definitely see more
companies from the consumer retail
sector. But I think more importantly is
um new economy tech and biotech. uh uh
substantial uh part of our pipeline uh
is is really uh on on tech and and
biotech and know specifically as it
relates to uh Hong Kong and HKX chapter
18 C specialist technology that that's
really a growing segment and also
chapter 18 A you know for biotech
companies uh you know for for both of
those chapters we see a significant
amount of companies that's publicly
filed and hopefully more to come.
Yeah, it's not just sort of like tech
that's having a a deep-seek moment. And
I mean we talk about a lot about the the
biotech space having its deepseek time
as well. But Nelly, is there anything
that sort of risks this optimism and
anything that makes you think maybe
companies might get a little bit nervous
and then hold back? Could trade tensions
be that for instance? Yeah, there's uh
obviously a lot of um attention around
the trade situation and also the
international relationships but actually
the time enough time has elapsed and
then we do see strong confidence in the
market uh the reaction to it. So
obviously there will be probably
short-term volatility around this but I
do see we are quite optimistic in the in
the second half of the year. Yeah. Um a
lot of the talk John said about the lack
of uh sort of appetite for ashare
listings. Um but we did hear from
regulators last month saying that
listings can actually uh increase here
on the chinex and the starboard. They
want to support innovation onshore. If
we likely if we see some sort of a share
rebound in IPOs is that going to hurt
Hong Kong in any way you think? Well,
the way that we see the the the Hong
Kong market and Asia market, we're very
complimentary uh and we have, you know,
roughly about 150 jewel uh ah listed
companies. So, so it's, you know, it's a
well trodden path uh very complimentary.
What we focus on on on H at HKX and in
Hong Kong is really uh the value
proposition that a Hong Kong listing
offers uh to issuers uh from China and
internationally and and specifically for
Chinese issuers, you know, be it
first-time issuers or or you know, ah uh
second listing issuers. Hong Kong, you
know, really offers uh international
capital uh markets access uh access to
international uh in investors uh and and
capital. And you see the other very
interesting thematic is uh for a number
of these age companies and also you know
the the the upcoming batch of Chinese
issuers listing in Hong Kong. A lot of
these companies are going international
and what Hong Kong really offers them is
you know a a fantastic international
capital markets platform to really
support and and aid their international
business expansion.
Yeah, that's really one of the I guess
the key advantages of listing here
versus in the mainland. What's the
conversation been like with with
companies that are in other parts of the
world? I'm thinking Southeast Asia, but
Middle East of course is a really
interesting dynamic as well.
Yeah. No, it's definitely a strong focus
for us. Uh, you know, so on the
international side and as you mentioned
on the Azan Southeast Asia side, we're
definitely seeing uh some some recent
successes. So over the course of the
past, you know, 6 to9 months, we've seen
uh quite a number of um Azan companies
uh from the e-commerce TMT space listing
in Hong Kong. uh biotech and and more
recently last week you know we had a
Thai coconut uh water consumer um uh
name that's you know that was was very
very well received um so so we're seeing
you know good good uh successes and
pipeline with international issuers
going forward you know um additional
work that you know will try to do more
to to really um uh help um international
issuers list in Hong Kong um so on the
uh we we've recently recognized u more
exchanges u we call RFC's uh recognized
stock exchanges, you know, Thailand has
most recently been added. Middle East,
uh Dubai, and and Abu Dhabi. Um so, so
we're doing a lot of uh that work to,
you know, really um bring more
international issuers to to list in Hong
Kong.
Uh Nelly, I got to talk about what we've
been seeing is is a lot of Chinese
investment banks are part of these IPOs
now.
Yeah.
What what do boat runners like, you
know, JP Morgan do to fend off some of
this competition from China right now?
Right. I think um I echo Johnson uh
earlier saying that a lot of these
companies they really want to come to
Hong Kong to tap the international
capital market. So I think um and given
the fact that all these international
investors uh global investors are really
coming back and having a showing a
strong interest in this part of the
world. So we definitely play a very very
important role in all these IPO uh
offerings.
Are fees going to be impacted in any way
then? Well, it's always uh competitive
and uh I would say um basically um it's
all the market rates.
Okay. Sounds like maybe there's a bit
maybe some discounts I guess have to be
offered. But uh in terms of as well what
sort of drives the demand, what is it
going to be? Is it going to be IPOs or
FPOS that that really we see say toward
the end of this year into the next?
Well, uh basically that's a very good
question. I think Hong Kong is good
obviously well known for our Hong Kong
IPO markets but follow on and also CBS
and equity uh and exchangeable uh uh
bonds also we see a lot of deals uh on
the pipeline and uh in Hong Kong there's
only three uh five billion above uh
followon uh placement in the history and
we actually did see two of them uh
launched in 2025. So we will expect a
lot more followons uh will be in the
Hong Kong market.
Okay. Before we go, I got to ask you
then. Do you think Hong Kong is going to
take the top crown for IPOs this year?
Yes or no? Nelly.
Yes.
Yes. Johnson.
We'll do what we need to do.
Very diplomatic answer. Johnson. Great.
Justin Ch there, head of global issuer
services at Hong Exchange. And our
thanks to Nelly Pi, head of Hong Kong
IPO and corporate finance group at JB
Morgan. You can get an insiders guide to
the money and people shaking up the
finance hub in our Hong Kong audition
newsletter that's out every Thursday.
You can sign up through our website
bloomberg.com/newsletters.
[Music]
We made a deal with China. We've made a
deal. We're close to making a deal with
India. Others we met with and we don't
think we're going to be able to make a
deal. So, we just send them a letter. If
you want to if you want to play ball,
you have to this is what you have to
pay.
[Music]
President Trump there saying he's close
to a trade deal with India. Of course,
India markets are opening up in the next
hour as well. And officials there are
saying that they've made their best
offer to the US and the fate of any
agreement now lies in the hands of
President Trump. Let's bring in our
South Asia economy editor, Rushi Batia.
She joins us now uh with what to expect.
So, best offer on the table. What do we
know so far about a potential deal here,
Rushi?
Well, the US President Donald Trump
there uh shipping out letters even as he
said that uh uh he's very close to
making a deal with India. As far as
India's concerned, we do know that India
has put its best foot forward uh and has
put their best offer on the table. Of
course, it is up to uh uh Donald Trump,
US president to really take that deal
forward and also it depends on the
Indian uh leader Narendra Modi as well
as to what will be the fate of this
deal. Having said that um there are a
few red lines that India has made very
clear in their offer. One of them of
course is uh the dairy sector uh the
fact that India will not open its market
to GM crops. uh uh and this is of course
coming in because uh remember farmers is
a big uh constituency as far as uh uh
the the uh Indian government is
concerned uh uh in almost more than half
of India's uh uh you know uh economy is
is uh uh dependent on the farm sector
and which is why uh it is very going to
be very hard for the Indian government
uh to to really u uh get uh uh and give
unprecedented access to uh the US as far
as the farm sector is concerned. Uh
having said that, India also has raised
its uh concerns and issues with two more
things. One of course is the sectoral
tariffs on uh on steel and auto and the
other one of course is the issue of
baseline tariff whether the 10% baseline
tariff will go. Having said that, over
the next few days we will uh we're
hoping to get some clarity but uh uh but
but the Indian government has made it
very clear that those red lines for them
should not be crossed. Uh there is a big
domestic constituency that they have to
take care of. Uh the Indian opposition
leader Rahul Gandhi has also uh been
saying that the Indian government should
not concede to the demands of the US but
we really have to see how it will play
out in the next coming days.
That was Bloomberg's Rucci Batia there
joining us this morning. And of course,
it's really that big focus on these
these trade decisions, these tariff
deadlines that have also been kicked
down to August 1. But in the shadows of
that, we've got the RBA that's set to
announce its first rate decision in
about 90 minutes from now. The
expectation is that we could see the
first back-toback interest rate cuts in
six years.
Yeah. So, that certainly is going to be
key thing. Is it all in the price? And
keep in mind RBN Zed has their
announcement and decision the next day.
So watch that Aussie Kiwi cross very
closely. But certainly there's a lot of
questions and expectation maybe that
they might see a third cut which might
be a tall order but we'll see what the
the the note and the the tones are going
to be from Michelle Bullock and her of
course uh central bank there. We got
more coming up with Insight with Helena
Ahmed.
[Music]